---
layout: post
title: "Post Zero: Project Hop and Fork"
categories: Hopandfork OpenSource
author: ''
comments: true
---

The common meaning of Zero is nothing, null or the absence of a value. In
computer science, on the other hand, it stands for the origin, the
start of something: in fact there is no data structure not starting with the
index zero. This blog should be seen as a vector containing posts, with Post
Zero occupying the 0th cell.  Being the first post, it will not have
specific content or revolutionary news, on the contrary its scope is marking
the start of a new project packed with interesting posts and contents.
  
Hop and Fork project was founded by a group of students attending their MSE in
Computer Science in University of Rome Tor Vergata. Between a coffee at the
bar and a chat in the corridors, we spend a great amount of time in project
related both to university and our jobs. Exam after exam, project after
project, we are growing, and it is growing in us, too, the will of sharing
our knowledge.

Nowadays everything is shared, an idea, a sentence, a picture or a video. But
"partition anxiety" is not yet a widespread disease in the computer world.
A lot of companies persist in choosing to produce _proprietary_ code instead of
open source code.  However, the _open_ choice is growing tremendously, and
the Linux kernel can give an idea of the impact these products can have on our
world.

We would be extremely honoured to give our little contribution to the world,
and we want to do it in the most "open" way we can think of.  As a consequence
of this:
  
  1. We will write blog posts going in depth in computer science topics. We
     hope that our posts will be of interest, mostly to people that share our
     passion with us.

  2. We will develop our ideas sharing publicly their source code.  Our main
     goal is promoting the free study of code and making other developers free
     to add modifications and extensions.

Finally, we hope that our readers will feel the need of contributing with
their impressions and opinions, with no holds barred and with no fear to
give useful suggestions.  Hop and Fork is a project that puts cooperation on
top of its vision, and for this exact reason we would like to invite you to
the _openSource_ lunch. It is a virtual lunch in which the main guest is open
source itself, and thanks to Jim Zemlin (Executive Director of Linux Foundation)
we know that "Open Source is Eating the Software World", and we can only say
that we are extremely hungry.
